Add documentation for Anki integration (#40209)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/anki.markdown

---
title: Anki
description: See the number of Anki flashcards to review
ha_release: 2025.9
ha_iot_class: Cloud Polling
ha_domain: anki
ha_integration_type: service
ha_platforms:
  - sensor
---

The **Anki** {% term integration %} displays the number of [Anki flashcards](https://apps.ankiweb.net) to review for the current day.

> **An AnkiWeb account** (or a custom sync server) **is mandatory to use this integration.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% important %}
An AnkiWeb account (or a custom sync server) is mandatory to use this integration.
{% endimportant %}
```
bold is used to markup UI strings. But we have these text boxes you can use to highlight information. important, note, or tip, for example.

---
title: Anki
description: See the number of Anki flashcards to review

> ha_release: 2025.7

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ha_release: 2025.9
```

ha_iot_class: Cloud Polling
ha_domain: anki
ha_integration_type: service
ha_platforms:
  - sensor
---

The **Anki** {% term integration %} displays the number of [Anki flashcards](https://apps.ankiweb.net) to review for the current day.

**An AnkiWeb account** (or a custom sync server) **is mandatory to use this integration.**

## Prerequisites

1. Download and install Anki.
2. Create an account on AnkiWeb, or on any other Anki sync server.
3. Log into this account in Anki.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

{% configuration_basic %}
Username:
    description: "Your email address or username on the Anki sync server."
Password:
    description: "Your password on the Anki sync server."
Host:
    description: "The URL of the Anki sync server. If you created an account on AnkiWeb, leave it to the default value of `https://sync.ankiweb.net`."
{% endconfiguration_basic %}

## Supported functionality

### Entities

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I would remove this heading, then you have an extra level to work with.

The **Anki** integration provides the following entities.

> #### Sensors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Sensors
```

- **Anki new cards**: The cards that you haven't seen.
- **Anki learning cards**: The cards that you haven't finished reviewing.
- **Anki review cards**: The cards that you reviewed in the past but that you must review again today.

## Troubleshooting

> ### Invalid credentials

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Symtom: Invalid credentials
```
if it is a symptom. Correct me if I got this wrong.

#### Description

The AnkiWeb credentials aren't accepted by the integration.

#### Resolution

Double-check your email address and password. You may have changed them recently.

> ### (AnkiWeb) You must verify your email address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Symptom: (AnkiWeb) You must verify your email address.
```

#### Description

> Once a year, AnkiWeb asks its users to verify their email address. Until they do so, the sync can't be done.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once a year, AnkiWeb asks you to verify your email address. The sync cannot be completed until the address is verified.
```

#### Resolution

> Check an email from AnkiWeb in your inbox and click on the link.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check an email from AnkiWeb in your inbox and select the link.
```
We usually [prefer select over click](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/c/click)

Author: Really? For me using "select" looks more like "select the link, copy it and paste it in your address bar".

Do you have other examples where this word is more appropriate?

In the [Microsoft style guide](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/procedures-instructions/describing-interactions-with-ui), the "select the link" example is the most counter-intuitive one for me.
